README.md, before:

# As Simple As Possible Cabinet Front-End

A dual screen front-end for your virtual pinball cabinet. "As Simple As Possible".

## Features:
- Full screen dual monitor display of table playfield, backglass and DMD
- Navigate tables with titles and wheels
- Extended settings for many display configurations
- Extremely lightweight and simple
- No need to download artpacks, generate your own!*
- Just what it takes to make a cabinet look good

*Playfield and Backglass from automated screenshots. Wheel and DMD generation not implemented yet.

## How to use:

- Download: `git clone https://github.com/surtarso/asap-cabinet-fe.git && cd asap-cabinet-fe/`

- Dependencies: `sudo apt install python3 python3-pyqt5`

- X11: `python3 asap-cabinet-fe.py`

- Wayland: `QT_QPA_PLATFORM=xcb python3 asap-cabinet-fe.py`

## Using the 'screenshot_art.sh' tool:

The script expects you to organize your tables by folders.
e.g. **/path/to/tables/<my_table>/<table_name.vpx>**

It will scan your tables folder and open each table one by one, wait 12 seconds for the table to fully load and take a screenshot from both app screens (playfield and backglass).

It will than save those pictures in **tables/my_table/images/** as .png and they will be ready for the frontend to display. You still need to download the wheel images and DMD animated gifs yourself.

- Dependencies: `sudo apt install xdotool imagemagick`

- Edit the screenshot_art script and set your paths.

- Dry-run to check results: `./screenshot_art.sh --dry-run`

- Run the main script: `./screenshot_art.sh`

**Flags:** 
- --wheel will display all tables without a wheel.png file.
- --dmd will display all tables without a dmd.gif file.
- --force will override existing table/backglass images with new ones.
- --dry-run will print execution without doing anything.

## Roadmap
    - Game title from metadata (instead of filename)
    - Search/sort buttons
    - Keymap support
    - Generate wheels/dmd somehow (?)
    - Music support (?)

### About

This is my personal frontend for my cabinet. It's As Simple As Possible. If you need help installing and configuring Visual Pinball X check my [wiki](https://github.com/surtarso/vpx-frontend/wiki) page, also check my [vpx-frontend](https://github.com/surtarso/vpx-frontend/) tools to ease the process of settings tables up.

Commit message:

added tool to create animated gif for DMD display, added dep-checks, updated readme

README.md, after:

# As Simple As Possible Cabinet Front-End

A dual screen front-end for your virtual pinball cabinet. "As Simple As Possible".

## Features:
- Full screen dual monitor display of table playfield, backglass and DMD
- Navigate tables with titles and wheels
- Extended settings for many display configurations
- Extremely lightweight and simple
- No need to download artpacks, generate your own!*
- Just what it takes to make a cabinet look good

*Playfield and Backglass from automated screenshots. Wheel and DMD generation not implemented yet.

## Installation:

- Download: `git clone https://github.com/surtarso/asap-cabinet-fe.git && cd asap-cabinet-fe/`

- Dependencies: `sudo apt install python3 python3-pyqt5`

- X11: `python3 asap-cabinet-fe.py`

- Wayland: `QT_QPA_PLATFORM=xcb python3 asap-cabinet-fe.py`

## Using the 'screenshot_art.sh' tool:

This script expects you to organize your tables by folders.
e.g. **/path/to/tables/<my_table>/<table_name.vpx>**

It will scan your tables folder and open each table one by one, wait 12 seconds for the table to fully load and take a screenshot from both app screens (playfield and backglass).

It will than save those pictures in **tables/my_table/images/** as .png and they will be ready for the frontend to display. You still need to download the wheel images and DMD animated gifs yourself.

- Dependencies: `sudo apt install xdotool imagemagick`

- Edit the screenshot_art script and set your paths.

- Dry-run to check results: `./screenshot_art.sh --dry-run`

- Run the main script: `./screenshot_art.sh`

**Flags:** 
- --wheel       display all tables without a wheel.png file.
- --dmd         display all tables without a dmd.gif file.
- --force       override existing table/backglass images with new ones.
- --dry-run     print execution without doing anything.

## Using the 'video_to_gif.sh' tool:

This script will convert all **MP4, WMV and F4V** DMD videos to **animated Gif's** so they can be used with this frontend (in tables/<table_name>/**images/dmd.gif**) or with Ultra.DMD tables in VPX-Linux.

Dependencies: `sudo apt install ffmpeg gifsicle`

Usage: `./video_to_gif.sh`

**Flags:**
- -h, --help       Show help
- --now            Run on the current folder
- --path <dir>     Run on a specific directory
- --optimize       Only optimize existing GIFs
- --optimize <dir> Only optimize existing GIFs in PATH

## Roadmap
    - Game title from metadata (instead of filename)
    - Search/sort buttons
    - Keymap support
    - Generate wheels/dmd somehow (?)
    - Music support (?)

### About

This is my personal frontend for my cabinet. It's As Simple As Possible. If you need help installing and configuring Visual Pinball X check my [wiki](https://github.com/surtarso/vpx-frontend/wiki) page, also check my [vpx-frontend](https://github.com/surtarso/vpx-frontend/) tools to ease the process of settings tables up.
